README.asciidoc, before:

= SCM Version Plugin
:latestRevision: 1.0.1
:toc:
:sectnums:

== Summary
Based on the used SCM (Source Control Management) this plugin provides project configuration handling and specific tasks regarding the version handling of the project.
The information of the used SCM is identified by special directories in the project directory (`'.git'`, `'.svn'`).
The plugin supports the following SCMs:

* git
* svn
* file (limited functionality)

Branches and tags are used for the calculation of the project version. The basic functionality for Git and Subversion is the same. +

NOTE: A file-based project does not support the calculation of the version based on previous versions.

It is also possible to identify the changes between the current working copy and the previous version. This functionality can also be used on a CI server during the creation of a new tag. In this case the changes between two versions are written to a file.

== Version Information from the SCM
This plugin adds the possibility to calculate version information of a project from the used SCM structure. It initializes a project property `useSCMVersionConfig`. The value of this property is `true`, if the plugin was applied and can be used by the own build logic and other plugins.

=== Subversion
This implementation depends on SVNKit 1.8. Therefore an installed SVN client 1.8 for the access to the stored Subversion credentials is required. For a correct calculation of the version, the access to the SVN repository must be available.

[CAUTION]
====
. This plugin assumes the standard Subversion structure:

  <project>
   |
   +- <code structure of the trunk>
   |
   +- branches
   |  |
   |  +- <branch name>
   |      |
   |      +- <code structure of the branch>
   |
   +- tags
      |
      +- <tag name>
          |
          +- <code structure of the tag>

. SVN version calculation is not working without network access.
====

=== Configuration Without Remote Access
If there is no access to a remote repository, it is possible to specify a version string as project property `offlineVersion` (see above)

[source]
----
gradlew -PofflineVersion=9.9.0.0-LOCAL publish
----
This will add the version '9.9.0.0-LOCAL' to your project. It is possible to add this property also to the
gradle.properties file in the Gradle user home.

CAUTION: This version will be published to the specified repository and can be used by other processes!

=== Git
The version can be calculated from the local clone without access to the remote repository.
The plugin assumes, that the default branch is called `'master'`.

=== Version Calculation
The plugin detects tags and branches with version information on special prefixes. These prefixes are configured based on the configuration `'prefixes'`.
For parsing, calculation and sorting a library for an extended version object is used. The library supports version numbers with three or four decimal numbers. Furthermore a special pattern is supported.

[source]
----
<prefix>_<version>[-<featurebranch name>][-<build extension>]
----

Therefore branch names must comply with the following patterns. All examples use the default configuration.

==== Feature Branch
[source]
----
<feature branch prefix>_<version>-<featurebranch name>
----
The default feature branch prefix is `'FB'`. The version is the original version of the master/trunk.

.Example
----
FB_1.0.0-JIRA-4711
FB_1.0.0-FeatureBranchName
----

==== Stabilization branch
[source]
----
<stabilization branch prefix>_<version>
----
The default stabilization branch prefix is `'SB'`. The version is the base version for this branch. In most cases, it is the major version of the master/trunk, before the branch was created.

.Example
----
SB_1        Stabilization branch for version 1.0.0 to 1.X.X
SB_1.0      Stabilization branch for version 1.0.0 to 1.0.X
----

==== Release Tag
[source]
----
<release prefix>_<version>[-<featurebranch name>][-<build extension>]
----
The default release prefix is `'RELEASE'`. The version is the base version of the branch. In the most cases, it is the major version of the master/trunk, before the branch was created.

.Example
----
RELEASE_1.1.0                   Release tag for version 1.1.0
RELEASE_1.1.0-dev.1             Tag of a development milestone release for version 1.1.0
RELEASE_1.1.0-rc.1              Tag of a release candidate for version 1.1.0
RELEASE_1.0.0-JIRA-4711-dev.1   Tag of a development milestone release of a feature branch version 1.0.0-JIRA-4711
----

==== Version Calculation on Git
* Default Branch (master) +
The plugin is looking for a tag on the branch. If there is no tag the default value is used and extended with `SNAPSHOT`.

* Branch/Feature Branch +
The plugin is looking for a tag on the branch. If there is no valid tag on the branch, the version is taken from the name of the branch. The version will be always extended with `SNAPSHOT` on the CI server.

* Tags +
Without local changes the plugin tries to calculate the name from the tag name.

==== Version Calculation on Subversion
* Trunk +
The plugin is looking for a tag that matches the specified criteria. In the most cases, the version is calculated from branches and will be extended with `SNAPSHOT`. This behavior can be configured.

* Branch / Feature Branch +
The plugin is looking for a tag that matches the branch name. If there is no valid tag on the branch, the version is taken from the name of the branch. The version will be always extended with `SNAPSHOT` on the CI server.

* Tags +
Without local changes the plugin tries to calculate the name from the tag name.

== Usage
To use the Gradle SCM Version plugin provided by Intershop, include the following in your build script of your *root* project:

[source,groovy]
[subs=+attributes]
.build.gradle
----
plugins {
    id 'com.intershop.gradle.scmversion' version '{latestRevision}'
}

scm {
    prefixes {
        //default is 'SB'
        stabilizationPrefix = 'SBP'

        //default is 'FB'
        featurePrefix = 'FBP'

        //default is Release
        tagPrefix = 'RBP'
    }

    version {
        type = 'threeDigits'
        initialVersion = '1.0.0'
    }

    changelog {
        previousVersion = '1.0.0'
        changeLogFile = new File(project.buildDir, 'changelog/changelogset.asciidoc')
        filterProject = true
    }
}

version = scm.version.version
----

== Tasks
The Intershop SCM Version plugin adds the following tasks to the project:

[cols="20%,15%,65%", width="95%", options="header"]
|===
|Task name  |Type             |Description

|showVersion|ShowVersion      |This task shows the current version of the working copy.
|tag        |CreateTag        |This task creates a tag based on the current working copy. +
It makes changes to the SCM.
|branch     |CreateBranch     |This task creates a branch based on the current working copy. +
It makes changes to the SCM.  +
For creating a feature branch it is necessary to specify a short name for the feature in a project property `*feature*`.
|toVersion  |ToVersion        |This task moves the working copy to a target version.
This version must be specified in a project property `*targetVersion*`. It is also possible to specify the short name of a
feature in a property `*feature*`. +
It changes the working copy.
|release    |PrepareRelease   |This task creates a tag, if necessary, and move the the working copy to the version. +
It changes the working copy.
|createChangelog |CreateChangeLog   | This task creates a change log with all changes between the latest commit of the current working copy and the tag of the previous version. It is possible to specify another 'previous' version. +
The tag for this version is mandatory.
|===

All task are part of the package `'com.intershop.gradle.scm.task'`

== Project Extension 'scm'

This plugin adds an extension *`scm`* to the root project. This extension contains all plugin configurations.

=== Methods
[cols="20%,15%,65%", width="95%", options="header"]
|===
|Method | Values | Description
|*prefixes*(configure)             |<<prefixconfig,PrefixConfig>> | This is the extension object for the configuration of branch prefixes.
|*user*(configure)                 |<<scmuser,ScmUser>>           | This extension is used for the SCM user authentication. +
_This extension can be configured over environment variables and project properties._
|*key*(configure)                  |<<scmkey,ScmKey>>             | This is also used for the SCM user authentication. +
_This extension can be configured over environment variables and project properties._
|*version*(configure)              |<<scmversion,ScmVersion>>     | This extension contains settings for version calculation and reads properties for the current version and previous version.
|*changelog*(configure)            |<<scmchangelog,ScmChangelog>> | This extension contains settings for change log configuration.
|===

==== [[prefixconfig]]Prefix configuration 'prefixes' (`PrefixConfig`)
[cols="20%,15%,15%,50%", width="95%", options="header"]
|===
|Property | Type | Default value | Description

|*stabilizationPrefix*    |`String` |`SB`       | Prefix for stabilization branches
|*featurePrefix*          |`String` |`FB`       | Prefix for feature branches
|*tagPrefix*              |`String` |`RELEASE`  | Prefix for release tags
|*prefixSeperator*        |`String` |`_`        | Separator between prefix and version
|===

==== Authentication
===== User object 'user' (`ScmUser`)[[scmuser]]
[cols="20%,15%,15%,50%", width="95%", options="header"]
|===
|Property | Type | Default value | Description

|*name*       |`String` |'' | Username or token +
_This can be overwritten by the system or environment variable `SCM_USERNAME` or project property `scmUserName`._
|*password*   |`String` |'' | Password +
_This can be overwritten by the system or environment variable `SCM_PASSWORD` or project property `scmUserPasswd`._
|===

===== SSH Key object 'key' (`ScmKey`) (only for Git)[[scmkey]]
[cols="20%,15%,15%,50%", width="95%", options="header"]
|===
|Property | Type | Default value | Description

|*file*       |`File`   |`null` | Private key for SCM authentication +
_This can be overwritten by the system or environment variable `SCM_KEYFILE` or project property `scmKeyFile`._
The plugin uses per default for ssh access <user_home>/.ssh/id_rsa or <user_home>/.ssh/id_dsa without passphrase.
|*passphrase* |`String` |''   | passphrase for private key +
_This can be overwritten by the system or environment variable `SCM_KEYPASSPHRASE` or project property `scmKeyPassphrase`._
|===

==== Version object 'version' (`ScmVersion`)[[scmversion]]
[cols="20%,15%,15%,15%,35%", width="95%", options="header"]
|===
|Property | Type | Default value | Values | Description

|*type*                 |`String`    |`threeDigits` | `fourDigits` +
 `threeDigits` | The number of used decimal numbers for a version number.
|*dryRun*               |`boolean`   |`false`      | `false` +
`true` | Tasks will run without changes on the working copy or SCM. +
_This can be overwritten by the system or environment variable `DRYRUN` or project property `dryRun`._
|*runOnCI*              |`boolean`   |`false` | `false` +
`true` | This configuration must be `true`, if the project is used on a CI server. +
_This can be overwritten by the system or environment variable `RUNONCI` or project property `runOnCI`._
|*increment*            |`String`    |`null`  | `MAJOR` +
`MINOR` +
`PATCH` +
 `HOTFIX` | If this property is set, the configured position is used for incrementing the version. +
 _This can be overwritten by the system or environment variable `INCREMENT`, or project property `increment`._
|*initialVersion*       |`String`     |`'1.0.0.0'` +
 `'1.0.0'` | | The inital version if a calculation from SCM is not possible.
|*branchType*    |`String`     |`tag`  | `branch` +
`tag` | The branch which is primarily used for the version calculation.
|*patternDigits*        |`int`        |`2` | `1` +
`2` +
`3` (available only if ScmVersion `type` is `fourDigits`)| Determines the number of digit blocks of the version number that will be used for calculating the version filter from branches.
|*defaultMetadata* |`String`     |''  | | This is used for releases of feature branches.
|*useBuildExtension*|`boolean`   |`false`|`false` +
`true` |Build extension will be removed for SNAPSHOT extensions if this property is false.
|*disableSCM*             |`boolean`   |`false`|`false` +
`true` |If this property is `true`, the initial version is always used and the SCM usage is disabled.
The environment variable `'SCMVERSIONEXT'` or the project variable `'scmVersionExt'` will be used on the CI server for special extensions. +
If set to: +
`'SNAPSHOT'` - `'SNAPSHOT'` will be added to the version. +
`'RELEASE'` - intial version is used without any extension. +
If no value is specified a time stamp will be added. +
On a local developer machine `'LOCAL'` will be added to the version.

|*version* | `String`    | *initialVersion* | *read only* | Returns the version of the working copy
|*versionExt* | `String`    | '' | *read only* | see description for `disableSCM`. The environment variable `SCMVERSIONEXT` or the project variable `scmVersionExt` is used for the return value.
|*previousVersion* | `String`    | '' | *read only* | Returns the previous version of the working copy.
|*previousVersionTag* | `VersionTag` | `null` | *read only* | Returns an object with the previous version and the associated release tag.
|===

==== Changelog Object 'changeLog' (`ScmChangeLog`)[[scmchangelog]]
[cols="20%,15%,15%,50%", width="95%", options="header"]
|===
|Property | Type | Default value | Description

|*previousVersion*        |`String`|*version.previousVersion* | Any version with tag for change log calculation. +
It is possible to override the value with the enviroment variable `PREV_VERSION`
|*changelogFile*        |`File`  |`<buildDir>/changelog/ +
changelog.asciidoc`| The change log will be written to this file.
|*filterProject*        |`boolean`| `false` | Filter changed files for projects (first folder in changed files must be identical to last folder of project svn url)
|===

== Example Configurations
=== Simple Configuration
[source,groovy,subs="attributes"]
----
plugins {
    id 'com.intershop.gradle.scmversion' version '{latestRevision}'
}


scm {
    version {
        type = 'threeDigits'
        initialVersion = '1.0.0'
    }
}

version = scm.version.version
----

=== gradle.properties with Authentication Configuration
This configuration works for Subversion and Git (http(s)://...). It is necessary to specify username and password for this kind of repositories.
[source,properties]
----
scmUserName = username
scmUserPasswd = password
----

This configuration works for GitLab / GitHub (ssh://...) with a private key and if necessary with a passphrase.
There is no default value for the key.
[source,properties]
----
# without passphrase
scmKeyFile = /user/home/.ssh/id_rsa
----
[source,properties]
----
# with passphrase
scmKeyFile = /user/home/.ssh/id_rsa
scmKeyPassphrase = passphrase
----

To use ssh keys you have to switch your repository from https to ssh with the following command:

[source,shell]
----
git remote set-url origin git@gitlab.coporate.com:yourname/yourrepo.git
----

=== Simple Configuration Without SCM
This configuration can be used when a different version control system is used in the project or another version schema is set in the project.

NOTE: Using this configuration a lot of the features are no longer available.

[source,groovy,subs="attributes"]
----

plugins {
    id 'com.intershop.gradle.scmversion' version '{latestRevision}'
}

scm {
    version {
        disableSCM = true
        initialVersion = '1.0.0'
    }
}

version = scm.version.version

----

On a CI server some properties must be transfered via the command line:

.snapshot build:
[source,properties]
----
./gradlew publish -PrunOnCI=true -PscmVersionExt=SNAPSHOT
----
.release build:
[source,properties]
----
./gradlew publish -PrunOnCI=true -PscmVersionExt=RELEASE
----

NOTE: After a release it is necessary to change the version manually.

=== Test
The integration tests use test repositories. Therefore, it is necessary to specify project properties for the test execution.

.Subversion test configuration
|===
|Test Property |Description | Value

|*svnurl*    | Root URL of the test project        | Must be specified with environment variable `SVNURL`
|*svnuser*   | User name of Subversion test user   | Must be specified with environment variable `SVNUSER`
|*svnpasswd* | Password for Subversion test user   | Must be specified with environment variable `SVNPASSWD`
|===

.Git test configuration
|===
|Test Property |Description | Value

|*giturl*    | URL of the test project      | Must be specified with environment variable `GITURL`
|*gituser*   | User name of Git test user   | Must be specified with environment variable `GITUSER`
|*gitpasswd* | Password for Git test user   | Must be specified with environment variable `GITPASSWD`
|===

== License

Copyright 2014-2016 Intershop Communications.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

Commit message:

add branchname property to version with tests; adapt build configuration

README.asciidoc, after:

= SCM Version Plugin
:latestRevision: 1.0.1
:toc:
:sectnums:

== Summary
Based on the used SCM (Source Control Management) this plugin provides project configuration handling and specific tasks regarding the version handling of the project.
The information of the used SCM is identified by special directories in the project directory (`'.git'`, `'.svn'`).
The plugin supports the following SCMs:

* git
* svn
* file (limited functionality)

Branches and tags are used for the calculation of the project version. The basic functionality for Git and Subversion is the same. +

NOTE: A file-based project does not support the calculation of the version based on previous versions.

It is also possible to identify the changes between the current working copy and the previous version. This functionality can also be used on a CI server during the creation of a new tag. In this case the changes between two versions are written to a file.

== Version Information from the SCM
This plugin adds the possibility to calculate version information of a project from the used SCM structure. It initializes a project property `useSCMVersionConfig`. The value of this property is `true`, if the plugin was applied and can be used by the own build logic and other plugins.

=== Subversion
This implementation depends on SVNKit 1.8. Therefore an installed SVN client 1.8 for the access to the stored Subversion credentials is required. For a correct calculation of the version, the access to the SVN repository must be available.

[CAUTION]
====
. This plugin assumes the standard Subversion structure:

  <project>
   |
   +- <code structure of the trunk>
   |
   +- branches
   |  |
   |  +- <branch name>
   |      |
   |      +- <code structure of the branch>
   |
   +- tags
      |
      +- <tag name>
          |
          +- <code structure of the tag>

. SVN version calculation is not working without network access.
====

=== Configuration Without Remote Access
If there is no access to a remote repository, it is possible to specify a version string as project property `offlineVersion` (see above)

[source]
----
gradlew -PofflineVersion=9.9.0.0-LOCAL publish
----
This will add the version '9.9.0.0-LOCAL' to your project. It is possible to add this property also to the
gradle.properties file in the Gradle user home.

CAUTION: This version will be published to the specified repository and can be used by other processes!

=== Git
The version can be calculated from the local clone without access to the remote repository.
The plugin assumes, that the default branch is called `'master'`.

=== Version Calculation
The plugin detects tags and branches with version information on special prefixes. These prefixes are configured based on the configuration `'prefixes'`.
For parsing, calculation and sorting a library for an extended version object is used. The library supports version numbers with three or four decimal numbers. Furthermore a special pattern is supported.

[source]
----
<prefix>_<version>[-<featurebranch name>][-<build extension>]
----

Therefore branch names must comply with the following patterns. All examples use the default configuration.
Depending on a special environment configuration (RUNONCI) the build extension is empty or SNAPSHOT, if this setting is true, otherwise it is LOCAL.

==== Feature Branch
[source]
----
<feature branch prefix>_<version>-<featurebranch name>
----
The default feature branch prefix is `'FB'`. The version is the original version of the master/trunk.

.Example
----
FB_1.0.0-JIRA-4711
FB_1.0.0-FeatureBranchName
----

==== Stabilization branch
[source]
----
<stabilization branch prefix>_<version>
----
The default stabilization branch prefix is `'SB'`. The version is the base version for this branch. In most cases, it is the major version of the master/trunk, before the branch was created.

.Example
----
SB_1        Stabilization branch for version 1.0.0 to 1.X.X
SB_1.0      Stabilization branch for version 1.0.0 to 1.0.X
----

==== Release Tag
[source]
----
<release prefix>_<version>[-<featurebranch name>][-<build extension>]
----
The default release prefix is `'RELEASE'`. The version is the base version of the branch. In the most cases, it is the major version of the master/trunk, before the branch was created.

.Example
----
RELEASE_1.1.0                   Release tag for version 1.1.0
RELEASE_1.1.0-dev.1             Tag of a development milestone release for version 1.1.0
RELEASE_1.1.0-rc.1              Tag of a release candidate for version 1.1.0
RELEASE_1.0.0-JIRA-4711-dev.1   Tag of a development milestone release of a feature branch version 1.0.0-JIRA-4711
----

==== Version Calculation on Git
* Default Branch (master) +
The plugin is looking for a tag on the branch. If there is no tag the default value is used and extended with `SNAPSHOT`.

* Branch/Feature Branch +
The plugin is looking for a tag on the branch. If there is no valid tag on the branch, the version is taken from the name of the branch. The version will be always extended with `SNAPSHOT` on the CI server.

* Tags +
Without local changes the plugin tries to calculate the name from the tag name.

==== Version Calculation on Subversion
* Trunk +
The plugin is looking for a tag that matches the specified criteria. In the most cases, the version is calculated from branches and will be extended with `SNAPSHOT`. This behavior can be configured.

* Branch / Feature Branch +
The plugin is looking for a tag that matches the branch name. If there is no valid tag on the branch, the version is taken from the name of the branch. The version will be always extended with `SNAPSHOT` on the CI server.

* Tags +
Without local changes the plugin tries to calculate the name from the tag name.

== Usage
To use the Gradle SCM Version plugin provided by Intershop, include the following in your build script of your *root* project:

[source,groovy]
[subs=+attributes]
.build.gradle
----
plugins {
    id 'com.intershop.gradle.scmversion' version '{latestRevision}'
}

scm {
    prefixes {
        //default is 'SB'
        stabilizationPrefix = 'SBP'

        //default is 'FB'
        featurePrefix = 'FBP'

        //default is Release
        tagPrefix = 'RBP'
    }

    version {
        type = 'threeDigits'
        initialVersion = '1.0.0'
    }

    changelog {
        previousVersion = '1.0.0'
        changeLogFile = new File(project.buildDir, 'changelog/changelogset.asciidoc')
        filterProject = true
    }
}

version = scm.version.version
----

== Tasks
The Intershop SCM Version plugin adds the following tasks to the project:

[cols="20%,15%,65%", width="95%", options="header"]
|===
|Task name  |Type             |Description

|showVersion|ShowVersion      |This task shows the current version of the working copy.
|tag        |CreateTag        |This task creates a tag based on the current working copy. +
It makes changes to the SCM.
|branch     |CreateBranch     |This task creates a branch based on the current working copy. +
It makes changes to the SCM.  +
For creating a feature branch it is necessary to specify a short name for the feature in a project property `*feature*`.
|toVersion  |ToVersion        |This task moves the working copy to a target version.
This version must be specified in a project property `*targetVersion*`. It is also possible to specify the short name of a
feature in a property `*feature*`. +
It changes the working copy.
|release    |PrepareRelease   |This task creates a tag, if necessary, and move the the working copy to the version. +
It changes the working copy.
|createChangelog |CreateChangeLog   | This task creates a change log with all changes between the latest commit of the current working copy and the tag of the previous version. It is possible to specify another 'previous' version. +
The tag for this version is mandatory.
|===

All task are part of the package `'com.intershop.gradle.scm.task'`

== Project Extension 'scm'

This plugin adds an extension *`scm`* to the root project. This extension contains all plugin configurations.

=== Methods
[cols="20%,15%,65%", width="95%", options="header"]
|===
|Method | Values | Description
|*prefixes*(configure)             |<<prefixconfig,PrefixConfig>> | This is the extension object for the configuration of branch prefixes.
|*user*(configure)                 |<<scmuser,ScmUser>>           | This extension is used for the SCM user authentication. +
_This extension can be configured over environment variables and project properties._
|*key*(configure)                  |<<scmkey,ScmKey>>             | This is also used for the SCM user authentication. +
_This extension can be configured over environment variables and project properties._
|*version*(configure)              |<<scmversion,ScmVersion>>     | This extension contains settings for version calculation and reads properties for the current version and previous version.
|*changelog*(configure)            |<<scmchangelog,ScmChangelog>> | This extension contains settings for change log configuration.
|===

==== [[prefixconfig]]Prefix configuration 'prefixes' (`PrefixConfig`)
[cols="20%,15%,15%,50%", width="95%", options="header"]
|===
|Property | Type | Default value | Description

|*stabilizationPrefix*    |`String` |`SB`       | Prefix for stabilization branches
|*featurePrefix*          |`String` |`FB`       | Prefix for feature branches
|*tagPrefix*              |`String` |`RELEASE`  | Prefix for release tags
|*prefixSeperator*        |`String` |`_`        | Separator between prefix and version
|===

==== Authentication
===== User object 'user' (`ScmUser`)[[scmuser]]
[cols="20%,15%,15%,50%", width="95%", options="header"]
|===
|Property | Type | Default value | Description

|*name*       |`String` |'' | Username or token +
_This can be overwritten by the system or environment variable `SCM_USERNAME` or project property `scmUserName`._
|*password*   |`String` |'' | Password +
_This can be overwritten by the system or environment variable `SCM_PASSWORD` or project property `scmUserPasswd`._
|===

===== SSH Key object 'key' (`ScmKey`) (only for Git)[[scmkey]]
[cols="20%,15%,15%,50%", width="95%", options="header"]
|===
|Property | Type | Default value | Description

|*file*       |`File`   |`null` | Private key for SCM authentication +
_This can be overwritten by the system or environment variable `SCM_KEYFILE` or project property `scmKeyFile`._
The plugin uses per default for ssh access <user_home>/.ssh/id_rsa or <user_home>/.ssh/id_dsa without passphrase.
|*passphrase* |`String` |''   | passphrase for private key +
_This can be overwritten by the system or environment variable `SCM_KEYPASSPHRASE` or project property `scmKeyPassphrase`._
|===

==== Version object 'version' (`ScmVersion`)[[scmversion]]
[cols="20%,15%,15%,15%,35%", width="95%", options="header"]
|===
|Property | Type | Default value | Values | Description

|*type*                 |`String`    |`threeDigits` | `fourDigits` +
 `threeDigits` | The number of used decimal numbers for a version number.
|*dryRun*               |`boolean`   |`false`      | `false` +
`true` | Tasks will run without changes on the working copy or SCM. +
_This can be overwritten by the system or environment variable `DRYRUN` or project property `dryRun`._
|*runOnCI*              |`boolean`   |`false` | `false` +
`true` | This configuration must be `true`, if the project is used on a CI server. +
_This can be overwritten by the system or environment variable `RUNONCI` or project property `runOnCI`._
|*increment*            |`String`    |`null`  | `MAJOR` +
`MINOR` +
`PATCH` +
 `HOTFIX` | If this property is set, the configured position is used for incrementing the version. +
 _This can be overwritten by the system or environment variable `INCREMENT`, or project property `increment`._
|*initialVersion*       |`String`     |`'1.0.0.0'` +
 `'1.0.0'` | | The inital version if a calculation from SCM is not possible.
|*branchType*    |`String`     |`tag`  | `branch` +
`tag` | The branch which is primarily used for the version calculation.
|*patternDigits*        |`int`        |`2` | `1` +
`2` +
`3` (available only if ScmVersion `type` is `fourDigits`)| Determines the number of digit blocks of the version number that will be used for calculating the version filter from branches.
|*defaultMetadata* |`String`     |''  | | This is used for releases of feature branches.
|*useBuildExtension*|`boolean`   |`false`|`false` +
`true` |Build extension will be removed for SNAPSHOT extensions if this property is false.
|*disableSCM*             |`boolean`   |`false`|`false` +
`true` |If this property is `true`, the initial version is always used and the SCM usage is disabled.
The environment variable `'SCMVERSIONEXT'` or the project variable `'scmVersionExt'` will be used on the CI server for special extensions. +
If set to: +
`'SNAPSHOT'` - `'SNAPSHOT'` will be added to the version. +
`'RELEASE'` - intial version is used without any extension. +
If no value is specified a time stamp will be added. +
On a local developer machine `'LOCAL'` will be added to the version.

|*version* | `String`    | *initialVersion* | *read only* | Returns the version of the working copy
|*branchName* | `String` | '' | *read only* | Returns the branch name only (String after last /)
|*versionExt* | `String`    | '' | *read only* | see description for `disableSCM`. The environment variable `SCMVERSIONEXT` or the project variable `scmVersionExt` is used for the return value.
|*previousVersion* | `String`    | '' | *read only* | Returns the previous version of the working copy.
|*previousVersionTag* | `VersionTag` | `null` | *read only* | Returns an object with the previous version and the associated release tag.
|===

==== Changelog Object 'changeLog' (`ScmChangeLog`)[[scmchangelog]]
[cols="20%,15%,15%,50%", width="95%", options="header"]
|===
|Property | Type | Default value | Description

|*previousVersion*        |`String`|*version.previousVersion* | Any version with tag for change log calculation. +
It is possible to override the value with the enviroment variable `PREV_VERSION`
|*changelogFile*        |`File`  |`<buildDir>/changelog/ +
changelog.asciidoc`| The change log will be written to this file.
|*filterProject*        |`boolean`| `false` | Filter changed files for projects (first folder in changed files must be identical to last folder of project svn url)
|===

== Example Configurations
=== Simple Configuration
[source,groovy,subs="attributes"]
----
plugins {
    id 'com.intershop.gradle.scmversion' version '{latestRevision}'
}


scm {
    version {
        type = 'threeDigits'
        initialVersion = '1.0.0'
    }
}

version = scm.version.version
----

=== gradle.properties with Authentication Configuration
This configuration works for Subversion and Git (http(s)://...). It is necessary to specify username and password for this kind of repositories.
[source,properties]
----
scmUserName = username
scmUserPasswd = password
----

This configuration works for GitLab / GitHub (ssh://...) with a private key and if necessary with a passphrase.
There is no default value for the key.
[source,properties]
----
# without passphrase
scmKeyFile = /user/home/.ssh/id_rsa
----
[source,properties]
----
# with passphrase
scmKeyFile = /user/home/.ssh/id_rsa
scmKeyPassphrase = passphrase
----

To use ssh keys you have to switch your repository from https to ssh with the following command:

[source,shell]
----
git remote set-url origin git@gitlab.coporate.com:yourname/yourrepo.git
----

=== Simple Configuration Without SCM
This configuration can be used when a different version control system is used in the project or another version schema is set in the project.

NOTE: Using this configuration a lot of the features are no longer available.

[source,groovy,subs="attributes"]
----

plugins {
    id 'com.intershop.gradle.scmversion' version '{latestRevision}'
}

scm {
    version {
        disableSCM = true
        initialVersion = '1.0.0'
    }
}

version = scm.version.version

----

On a CI server some properties must be transfered via the command line:

.snapshot build:
[source,properties]
----
./gradlew publish -PrunOnCI=true -PscmVersionExt=SNAPSHOT
----
.release build:
[source,properties]
----
./gradlew publish -PrunOnCI=true -PscmVersionExt=RELEASE
----

NOTE: After a release it is necessary to change the version manually.

=== Test
The integration tests use test repositories. Therefore, it is necessary to specify project properties for the test execution.

.Subversion test configuration
|===
|Test Property |Description | Value

|*svnurl*    | Root URL of the test project        | Must be specified with environment variable `SVNURL`
|*svnuser*   | User name of Subversion test user   | Must be specified with environment variable `SVNUSER`
|*svnpasswd* | Password for Subversion test user   | Must be specified with environment variable `SVNPASSWD`
|===

.Git test configuration
|===
|Test Property |Description | Value

|*giturl*    | URL of the test project      | Must be specified with environment variable `GITURL`
|*gituser*   | User name of Git test user   | Must be specified with environment variable `GITUSER`
|*gitpasswd* | Password for Git test user   | Must be specified with environment variable `GITPASSWD`
|===

== License

Copyright 2014-2016 Intershop Communications.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
